Welcome back from exercise two.
So I got some good feedback
during the break, though,
kind of wanted to share
a couple of things.
First of all folks being a little
overwhelmed by the voice over or
the screen reader utility, which I
completely understand it's system level.
So if you start doing something like
changing tabs or opening a new app,
it just reads and reads and
reads at a very fast pace.
One thing to keep in mind for
the Mac voiceover users that command
f5 will toggle voiceover on and off.
So if you need it off really quick,
you can do that.
You can also wear the gray boxes
reading the text, you can at any time,
just click the X in the top left,
and that'll also turn voiceover off.
Another question about wanting to use
voiceover with just the visual and
not the audio.
I'm not sure if there's a setting for it.
But one thing that I often do
since the visual is enough for
me to test is I just turn
the sound off on my Mac.
So I'm not listening to it, and
then just use the text to test things.
There are also settings where
you can change the voice and
you can slow it down or speed it up.
So if you're doing heavy testing
with it and you're new to it.
I would really recommend slowing the voice
down because it feels very overwhelming
having someone talk at you very quickly
while you're trying to do stuff.
Cool, so for this exercise, I think the
way that I would normally just start it is
by turning on my screen reader
just to kind of get a feel for
what the site is like.
So, I'll use Command F5 to turn the screen
reader on, I use voiceover here.
And then I'll just kind of start
tabbing through a little bit,
see what the interactive elements are.
So, I can kind of tap through and I see,
okay, we've got a link to this repo.
Then we've got some of these
dangerous form fields again,
like we had before they just say
Edit Text blank on them, Edit Text blank.
And then it just sort of moves on, so
not super useful for
screenreader users right now.
So kind of with that information,
I'll hop over into the HTML.
So I'm gonna move over
into my text editor.
And I'm just gonna close this and open to
the HTML here in the exercises folder.
So that's exercises 2 dot html.
And basically I just wanted to kind of
show the experience of the stuff that we
had looked at before.
So this sort of anti pattern of using
non labels to label your form fields.
This anti pattern of using divs for
buttons because they won't
be focused by the keyboard.
And this anti pattern of using
an image with no alt text so
the screen reader doesn't
know what to do with it.
So yeah, for this one,
you can kind of do either the explicit or
the implicit labels that I showed before.
So I like the implicit where you
just kind of wrap the input in it.
So I'll do like this and move it over,
and then provide a closing label tag.
And I'll do the same thing for this one.
So label move this over and
then a closing label tag here.
For the class of button,
I will just get rid of this.
Use a button if possible.
And remember if you need to, you can feel
totally free to style buttons like you
do not need to keep them gray with
their border or anything like that.
So you could easily do like a button
with a class of like my custom button,
anything you want here.
And you can reset all of those things
Porter, zero background inherit or
whatever you can do all that stuff.
That's no problem at all but the button
is, what's gonna get you the focus and
the key down and the tab index,
all those kinds of things.
And then for this alt text here,
go ahead and add kitten.
I'll go ahead and save that.
Come back and refresh here.
And then just kind of F5
again to start screen reader.
And then just make sure that I got
these things kind of correct or
I've got everything that I
can just mess with here.
The question is like for the link, would
that be a good place to use an aria label?
And it's really interesting.
So, you've kind of have like two different
ways that screen reader users will
interact with your site.
One way is that they'll just
load up the screen reader and
let it just read the whole web page,
right.
And so when they're reading the web page,
they'll get the same context that we'll
get like download the code for this repo.
But as you mentioned,
which I think is great,
like these links will often do that,
right?
A link will text off and be click here,
and no context at all to it.
So, if you're tabbing through or if you
use that rotor that I showed earlier to
view all links on the site,
it's not super useful, right?
It'll be like, click here,
click here, click here.
Those are the three links on the page.
So yeah, I do think that if you
wanted to go the extra mile,
it would be great to add
labels to those links.
Just say aria label,
I got a mail, even do it now.
So we've got this here and
then we could just add
an aria label and
we could do I guess it is a link.
So it would be, get hub page for
repository or something like that.
Just so that it's got more context
to it than what the link is.
Another tool that we'll learn
about in another section is.
Instead of labelling and describing,
aria also offers an API for
describing which is more
like supplementary content.
So it's, hey, this thing is a button but
what it does is it takes you to this.
So it might be a good example for
describe as well.
But I think that's a really good point
that, we talked about images and
form fields.
But even links like if
the context isn't there,
I think that's a great opportunity
to label them for sure.
So if you use a div with a role of
button and you do all the things,
does it have a negative impact?
I would say no, but
with a caveat that you have to make
sure you do all the things right.
So, it's like the roll the tab
index the mouse down, and
the key down sniffing for enter and space.
Make sure you do all of those things,
and then it'll perform the same way.
So, that's the cool thing is like Aria,
which we're going to get
into the next section.
It really does let you control things
with the roles and with the labels and
things like that it really can alter
the screen of your experience.
So yeah, you can definitely do it as long
as you're committed to making sure that
you cover 100% of the functionality.
Because sometimes things will
have just sneaky functionality,
like I didn't know about enter on
buttons for a really long time.
I just like to click on.
So things like that can be missed,
but no as long as you commit to it,
I think that's totally fine.
So these days is it better to use the nav
tag with anchors versus the old school
style of using an unordered
list with our eyes.
Great question nav did you
know the nav does provide some
semantic meaning for sure.
The important thing for sure is that the
things themselves are always wrapped in
anchors like anything that takes
you to a new page is an anchor.
That's like the vital thing.
I think for these tags that
provide semantic meaning, but
don't provide functionality like nav, for
example, I don't think it's important.
I think it's fine to use an unordered list
but I would lean towards using these tags.
They have a lot of benefits in just
like search engines in general structure
the page and things like that.
So I would prefer to use a nav.
But I think the only important thing,
I see a lot of confusion
between buttons and links.
So if you had buttons that
took you to different pages,
that would be bad because buttons are
supposed to be interactivity on a page.
So as long as their anchor tags I
think it's fine either way, but yeah,
it's a great question.
Are there differences between what we're
doing today, which is just vanilla HTML,
versus how would you do this with
a framework react or Angular view?
So for all intents and purposes, right?
All of these things are supported through
the frameworks in the exact same way.
Although we sort of know from other things
when we're using a framework that uses JSX
as an example react.
They don't support the data
properties in the same way.
So I would have to look it up, but
I would assume some of the aria tags
might be camel cased instead of dashed.
Similarly, a lot of other properties are.
A lot of the dashes get turned
into camel case things in JSX.
So you might you would have to look up
specifically does Aria dash label work or
would it be Aria label all
one word with a capital L.
But as far as support goes,
they'll be the same they'll be the exact
same in the sense that you'll just apply
them directly to the element that.
Even if it's a virtual DOM element,
but for sure if it's JSX,
then there might be syntax difference.
And so yeah, so we talked about
anchors being page to page,
buttons being something on the page,
but what about examples?
If you have a form and you have a submit
button, but when you submit the button,
you get redirected.
Is there any way to tell the user hey,
you're going to get taken somewhere else?
So there absolutely is.
Within Aria, there are roles
that you can add to things.
And you got a bunch of cool roles
like has transition or has pop up or
has navigation.
These different things where you can
let the user know, hey, It's a button.
It's what you think is a submit button.
But we're gonna do something here or
similarly, hey, it's a button.
The label of the button is register for
an account, but it has Aria has pop up.
So also know that when you click the
button, you'll be taken to a new modal.
So that's a great question.
I'll cover in the next section.
But yeah, Aria has these abilities to
let users know what the role is or
what experience is going to happen.
So yeah, awesome question.